Rajasekaran and Arulchelvan (2015) studied “Effectiveness of Visuals in E-Learning on Media Communication Courses” in Tamilnadu. The Objectives were to find out the effectiveness of visuals in media communication courses, to find significant role played with 2.1 Factors affecting the e-learning, Perceptions and Readiness of students about e-learning • Studies Conducted in India • Studies Conducted in Abroad 2.2 Development and Validation of E-content/ E-learning packages • Studies Conducted in India • Studies Conducted in Abroad 2.3 Blended Learning Experiences in Higher Education art and design. The sample of the study consisted of 415 student from bachelor degree courses (art, architecture and media) Anna University and other colleges offering same courses. Random sampling method was used for sampling. Research Design was Survey. The Tool used for Data collection was self-administered questionnaire. The major findings of the study revealed that visuals in stories were adding interest and improved learning was the most important factor on awareness on e–learning content, followed by e-learning used for updating knowledge and user friendly. Learning created interest to explore the learning ,Like the idea of learning with 3D graphics and animation using in a computer than sitting in a classroom with a teacher and book, e-learning accessible at any time and any place and so on. The least factor was e-learning was expensive than other learning followed by Solve the problems in a better way compared to classroom assignments, Visual learning was better than the face to face class, Easy to remember the e-learning content and so on. Video gave overall input about the content along with audio was the most important factor on Effects of various Types of Visuals In e-learning Content Design of Students on Video, followed by Feel of reality was high in video than the other forms of visuals . The least factor was stronger colours disturbed the learner to learn followed by Text + audio were highly supported by visuals for effective learning. The Impact of visuals among Students before showing the various types of visuals in media communication and design principles on elearning content was 48.9 percentage. The Impact of visuals among Students after showing the various Types of visuals in media communication and design principles on e- learning content was 70.2 percentage. Visual based e-learning method made the students more understanding of the media, art and design subjects than traditional face-to-face teaching method. Visuals based e-learning could create easy understanding, focus on learning, retention level, and higher score in the examinations among the students were highly possible. Sharma and Hardia (2013) carried out a research on “-Measuring Level of Usage of Elearning amongst Students Pursuing Higher Education. The Objectives of the Study were to identify the factors affecting the level of usage of e-learning amongst students of higher learning and to study the effect of demographics on the factors affecting the level of usage of e-learning amongst students of higher learning. Data was collected using a self-prepared questionnaire. The questionnaire was sent to 400 students pursing higher education in Indore and nearby city. A total of 341 questionnaires were found to be suitable for the analysis. In order to study first objective factor analysis was carried out. Factor analysis was conducted on the survey data using SPSS to establish the factor structure of level of usage of e-learning amongst students of higher learning. Factors were found to be significant were 1). Comfort level with technology, 2). Group Learning, 3) Disciplined Explorer. Based on the results above gender, qualification and educational background was not found to be significant in the level of usage of e learning for students of higher education. However age was found to be significantly affecting the level of usage of e-learning for students of higher education. Further was observed that work experience was not found to be significant for comfort level with technology and learning using technology but was found to be significant with group learning. Sood and Singh (2014) studied on “e-learning: Gender analysis in higher education in North India”. The study was aimed to analyse the genders’ interest in e-Learning in higher education in the northern part of India. A questionnaire survey designed for the purpose gathered information on students’ participation and opinions about the use of e-Learning in higher education. The survey was conducted on a group of 392 people involved in higher education in Chandigarh (northern part of India) and surrounding areas. The group was a heterogeneous one and consisted of students in the fields related to Information Technology at the college and university level. The students targeted were the ones who were enrolled in different streams (related only to the field of IT) at under graduate and post graduate levels for studying in various colleges as well as in the university affiliating these colleges. The analysis of the results clearly indicated that the e-learning patterns were not gender sensitive as far as the web-based learning style was concerned. Similarly, it was found that there was no significant gender sensitivity in the area of interests in software project management. But as far as the issues of ‘knowledge about the typical patterns observed in software projects’ was concerned, the various parameters have been found to be significantly gender sensitive. Jaiswal (2013) conducted a study on “Current Status of e-Learning in Indian Higher Education: A Case Study of U.P”. The study was conducted to find out the current status of elearning in higher education. The objectives of the Study were to study current status of elearning in Universities and their affiliated Aided colleges of U.P. (India) and to study teachers’ and students’ perception towards e-learning. Thus, in order to study this objective 2919 teachers (839 teachers from professional courses and 2080 teachers from non-professional courses) and 7717 students (4512 students from professional courses and 3205 from nonprofessional courses at UG & PG levels) were selected as a sample for the present study. Professional courses were consisted of BBA, BCA, B.Tech., B.Pharma, BFA, LLB, B.Ed., M.Ed., MBA, MCA, MFA, MSW, M.SC.(Biotech.), M.Sc.(Microbiology), and PGDCA whereas non-professional courses were comprised of B.A., B.Sc., B.Com., B.Sc.(Ag.), MA, M.Sc., M.Com, M.Sc.(Ag.) were selected as a sample from the eleven state universities of U.P. for the study. Self-developed tools on e-learning covering above objectives were used in the study to collect the data from teachers and students. It was found that below average number of professional courses’ teachers in higher education were using e-learning mode whereas only a few non-professional courses’ teachers were using e-learning mode. There were three modes of e-learning viz. online mode, hybrid/blended mode and e-enhancement mode but only eenhancement mode was being used by the professional and non-professional courses’ teachers in Indian higher education. The major findings of the study were as follows: 1) Below average number of professional courses’ teachers in higher education is using e-learning mode. Only a few non-professional courses’ teachers are using e-learning mode. There are three modes of elearning viz. online mode, hybrid/blended mode and enhancement mode but only eenhancement mode is being used presently by the professional and non-professional courses’ teachers in higher education. Teachers also admitted the benefits of integration of e-learning in their pedagogy. The study also found that majority of teachers is using e-learning from the last five years. Also the majority of students and teachers are completely satisfied with elearning mode. 2) Currently being used features of e-learning are providing general information, study notes and interaction through e-mail, guiding student to web resources, and to some extent assignment handling and feedback; virtual class room facility. Further, the features of elearning which may be most useful according to teachers are providing general information, study material, links to web resources, online discussion, online tutor support, virtual classroom facility, VLE for assessment methods and e-LMS. 3) Majority of teachers are in favour of use of various aspects of e-learning in future viz. mlearning, podcasting and vodcasting, intelligent tutoring system, educational simulation and games and educational blogging. 4) According to teachers the most benefitted aspects of teaching-learning by introducing elearning are delivery of teaching-learning, development of the content, interaction, management and resources for teaching-learning whereas the least benefitted aspects were assessment and student support. Greatest benefits of introducing e-learning from student perspective are self-pacing, communication and feedback, deeper knowledge, helps in building specific skills, helps in targeting specific weaknesses of students, and increase in accessibility to content and tutor. 5) It was found that almost half of the teachers and only a few students have access to UGC Infonet e-journals in their library although their teachers admitted that near about average students have access to e-journals. Majority of the students and teachers are satisfied with the e-journals but some teachers and students also reported problems in accessing ejournals provided by UGC-Infonet such as low access speed. 6) Almost half of the students reported that utilization of traditional library has been decreased by 20 percent because of digital library. More than average number of students reported about 20 percent decrease in use of other modes of learning because of elearning. 7) The major motives for introducing e-learning for professional courses’ teachers are meeting individual needs, encouragement of learner autonomy, development of life-long learning skills, self-pacing, enrichment of learning resources, improving student’s experiences. Similarly, major motives for non-professional courses’ teachers were encouragement of learner autonomy, development of life-long learning skills, self-pacing and improving student’s experiences. Lakshmi (2012) carried out a research titled “A study on E-learning in Gujarat”. The objectives were to study the e-learning forms in adopted in higher education institution in Gujarat to infrastructure facilities available in higher education institution in Gujarat and to study the opinions of students, faculties and lab administrators regarding e-learning practices being adopted in higher education institutions of Gujarat regarding concept of e-learning, use of e-learning tools and Future scope of e-learning. The sample of the study consisted of 83 faculties, 153 students and 12 lab administrators using online learning fully or in blended mode from 22 Higher Education Intuitions. Research was carried out using Survey design. Tool Used for Data collection Questionnaire. Major findings of the study revealed that most of the faculties in higher education institutions had individual personal computers with internet connection, with higher bandwidth for them in their staff rooms. Only few institutions were using CMS/LMS for providing e-learning practices and When it came to blended form of elearning approach, most of the institutions were using the basic e-learning practices lie intranet and e-mail while the practices like blogs, video conferencing, chats, virtual classrooms were adopted at a very minimal level in the institutions which were adopting the e-learning practices and Many higher educational institutions were making use of institutional website to adopt either blended approach of e-learning or fully online approach. Selected institutions were offering any self-paced courses in module formats in various areas of studies either through institutional websites or through their tele-learning centres. Some of the initiatives many institutions uploaded their courseware, recorded video sessions, interactive tele-conferencing sessions, online counselling sessions, sample question papers, question banks, online assignments, lab manuals on to their website. The most common available facilities of elearning were online study material, online syllabus while assignment feedback, tests or quizzes, open forums, web seminars and digital libraries were the least available e-learning facilities. It was observed that most of the higher education institutions were using the elearning practices since last three years and in very few institutions it was mandatory for the faculties to use e-learning practices in their teaching –learning, evaluation and other aspects. Both students and faculties felt that the e-learning practices adopted by the institutions were at very basic level and hence they did not need any special guidance in this regard. Majority of stakeholders were satisfied with regard to the e-learning practices being adopted in the institutions. According to the respondents gender did not appear to moderate the response of students in e-learning mode and academically well prepared students respond more positively to e-learning practices of the institution than academically less prepared students. Regarding the benefits of e-learning, the stakeholders felt that access to information related to the course content becomes easy and fast in the e-learning platform and further it was easy to reach more students in less time. They all almost equally felt that e-learning platform provides the scope for learning at own pace, at any time. However, both faculties and students expressed that elearning platform was not of that help in maintaining transparency in the system. On the part of the faculties, they felt that providing additional information regarding the course becomes easy in e-learning. Nachimuthu (2010) conducted a study titled “Identifying the usability of e-learning resources in teacher education of India”. The objective of the study was to identify the usability of elearning resources in teacher education of India. The sample of the study consisted of 17 College of Education 115 B.Ed. Students in Salem District of Tamilnadu. Convenience sampling method was used as sampling pattern. The research designed used was Survey. Tool used for data collection was Questionnaire. Major Findings of the study were that all the institutions were having at least five computer peripherals with 70 per cent Air conditioned facilities in their ICT laboratories. Majority of B.Ed. college Trainees and their colloquies were already taking actions regarding some of the accepted ways of use of computers in their regular classrooms (32.0), however they were not prepared to sacrifice their personal comfort for using e-books (in total 45%), they have strong reasons for that. The College of Education trainees were using the physical books handling (86.2) rather than the e-books were also evidenced that, they were either not having enough time to use e-books or entry in the computer labs.
